***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: A programming language is used to code software applications by giving instructions for a computer to perform an action.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: Java Development Kit (JDK) is composed of everything that a computer needs to compile and run Java applications.

What is an IDE?
Answer:Integrated Development Environment

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: Eclipse, Netbeans, Intellij Idea

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: Java programs normally go through five phases—edit, compile, load, verify and execute.

What is a class?
Answer: A class in the context of Java is a template used to create objects and to define object data types and methods.
A class is a non-primitive or user-defined data type in Java

What is an object?
Answer:A Java object is a member (also called an instance) of a Java class. Each object has an identity, a behavior and a state.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:The main method is the entry point of a Java application.

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:The main() method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that Path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac,
which are used to compile your code. Whereas CLASSPATH is used by System or Application class loader to locate
and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override.
An interface only allows you to define functionality, not implement it.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class (interface is not even considered as a class.)
What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:Access modifiers are keywords used to specify the accessibility of a class (or type) and its members.
These modifiers can be used from code inside or outside the current application.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a style of programming characterized by the identification of classes of objects
closely linked with the methods (functions) with which they are associated. It also includes ideas of inheritance of attributes and methods.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:For convenience, the Java compiler automatically imports two entire packages for each source file: (1) the java. lang package
and (2) the current package (the package for the current file).


What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
Facebook, Instagram, weather apps etc.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:The Java programming language supports multiple inheritance of type, which is the ability of a class to implement more than one interface.

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer:Two or more methods can have the same name inside the same class if they accept different arguments.
Method overloading is achieved by either: changing the number of arguments. or changing the data type of arguments.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions.
When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system.
The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:In the Java programming language, the keyword static means that the particular member belongs to a type itself,
rather than to an instance of that type. This means we'll create only one instance of that static member that is shared
across all instances of the class.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable (impossible to inherit or override).
The final keyword is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value.The final keyword is called a "modifier".

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:The basic difference between final, finally and finalize is that the final is an access modifier,
finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is the method of object class.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.
The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:A class can have multiple constructors with different types of arguments and different number of arguments.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:If a class does not explicitly declare any constructors, the Java platform automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor, that does nothing.
Thus, all classes have at least one constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:The "this" keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.
The most common use of the "this" keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name
(because a class attribute is shadowed by a method or constructor parameter).


What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is created implicitly which is referred by
super reference variable. 1. super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:Java Virtual Machine, or JVM, loads, verifies and executes Java bytecode.
It is known as the interpreter or the core of Java programming language because it executes Java programming.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:While JAVA is platform-independent language, the JVM is platform-dependent.
Different JVM is designed for different OS and byte code is able to run on different OS.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: JDK 11

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAR stands for Java Archive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java. It is a software bundle which provides Java class libraries with necessary components to run Java code.
JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.


Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Compile time is the period when the programming code (such as C#, Java, C, Python) is converted to the machine code (i.e. binary code).
Runtime is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
Answer:A heap is a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfied the heap property.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.
Thus, we are not required to implement memory management logic in our application.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.
That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:In Java, Singleton is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is the process of converting an object into a stream of bytes to store the object or transmit it to memory,
a database, or a file. Its main purpose is to save the state of an object in order to be able to recreate it when needed.
The reverse process is called deserialization.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement(s),
whereas do while loop will execute the statement(s) at least once, then the condition is checked.

What is Enum?
Answer:Enums are used when we know all possible values at compile-time, such as choices on a menu, rounding modes, command-line flags, etc

What is Iterator?
Answer:An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.
It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store.
On other hand Integer is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:The process of invoking a sequence of constructors upon initialization of a class object is called constructor chaining.
Constructor chaining is useful when you want to invoke multiple constructors,
one after another, by initializing only one instance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector uses a single
thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the runtime environment that improves the performance of
Java applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.
Java programs compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java Virtual Machine, or JVM for short.
When Java programs run on the JVM, objects are created on the heap, which is a portion of memory dedicated to the program.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.
The purpose of garbage collection (GC) is to identify and discard objects that are no longer needed by a Java program,
so that their resources can be reclaimed and reused.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:The major difference between Stack memory and heap memory is that the stack is used to store the order of method
execution and local variables while the heap memory stores the objects and it uses dynamic memory allocation and deallocation.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to examine
or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program. For example, it's possible for a Java
class to obtain the names of all its members and display them.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:In Java, Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.
A thread in Java is a lightweight process requiring fewer resources to create and share the process resources.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.
In the Multithreading concept, multiple threads try to access the shared resources at a time to produce inconsistent results.
The synchronization is necessary for reliable communication between threads.

What is a Framework?
Answer:Java frameworks are bodies of prewritten code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language.
Java frameworks are specific to the Java programming language. It's a Java platform for developing software applications and Java programs.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:JUnit, JBehave, Serenity, Selenium, TestNG

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an
upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.
DI can be implemented in any programming language. The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding happens when all information needed to call a function is available at the compile-time.
Dynamic binding happens when the compiler cannot determine all information needed for a function call at compile-time.